Good afternoon everybody, 

 

I am sharing here an example of what the dialogue project should look like. It's important to remember that this is a different genre than an essay and as such has different genre features. I've attached an example herebelow, but also look at the Phaedrus, which also models it well. In that book, we see that the dialogue begins "naturally" and introduces the topic via dialogue, not by prose exposition. At the end of that book, we see Socrates summing things up for Phaedrus. He concludes. 

For your dialogues, remember that you should end with a synthesis. The readings by Voline and Faure give some good ideas for understanding synthesis. Voline gives some good illustrations of what syntheses can look like, but essentially, remember that it must both better than the individual parts and include all the component pieces. The sum will be greater than its parts.

Hope this helps and I can answer any further questions tomorrow in class or via email (if you prefer).



Example Dialogue Format:
Christian Taylor
Professor Taylor
Engl. 1030. [Course number]
January 20, 2024 
Original Title

Characters of the Dialogue
Primaris, who thinks all life is sacred.		Secundus, who privileges bodily autonomy.
Tertius, who reckons birth is a curse.			

Scene: It is dusk and Primaris and Quartus, walking together into a graveyard, stumble upon Secundus chatting with Tertius upon the steps of a crypt. 

Secundus: Where are you from Tertius and whence do you go?  
Tertius: From the dust I came and to the dust I go, Secundus. Though the time in between is passable in good conversation. 
Secundus: Though I think the former perhaps too severe, the latter is certainly true. I am happy to pass some time with you here, but look, it seems others are winding their way through the headstones too. 
Tertius: Who do you suppose they are?
Secundus: I think I recognize my old acquaintance Primaris there standing tall, but that fellow beside him, I do not know… [the dialogue continues].

