“Open-ended questions have many possible answers; the best answers reveal hidden complexities, introduce important distinctions, delight in nuance and subtlety, place the issue at hand in a new context, deepen understanding, point to a new question or the next question. The best answers make connections that extend the discussion.” (Habits 104)

 

For this assignment you’ll use your research to write a Platonic dialogue that deals with your final question, offering “a snapshot of your mind at work on a problem” (Habits 92). Dialogues are well-suited to asking complex questions and exploring the many possible answers.  A dialogue has two or more characters speaking to each other. It begins with doxa (preexisting “opinion” or “truth”), investigates it through well-ordered and reasonable conversation, determines if those opinions or truths are correct, incorrect, in what ways, etc. The purpose of the inquiry dialogue is to put the different answers, sides, opinions, that you’ve discovered into conversation where they can modify each other and lead to a position that’s better than each individual one. This does not merely mean “meet in the middle” but seek some new knowledge or “truth” by synthesizing the different sides and transcending their individual limitations. As Voltairine de Cleyre says, “Truth lies not ‘between the two,’ but in a synthesis of the two [or more] opinions” (“Anarchism” 27).

 

Assignment: Start from the most compelling version of your question from your Research Narrative (or in reflecting on my feedback, or in conferences since then).

Embody the multiple positions in individual characters and put them in conversation with each other in some fitting scene. The scene can be “realistic” or fantastic, so long as it encourages open-minded (Rogerian) dialogue. Putting these characters (as representatives of ideas) in conversation with one another requires that you have sufficient knowledge (backed by research) of the issue, their argumentative strategies, goals, values, etc. and be capable of summarizing them “in their own words.”
After setting up the current sides/answers to your question and letting them speak their peace, add a “third” character (or whatever number it happens to be) who transcends the partiality of the previous positions by synthesizing them into a position that incorporates the different sides. This synthetic position should support itself with the old information but also new research that is not present in the other two sides. The goal is not to simply choose one side and declare them the winner, but to—through open, honest, and genuine research, thought, and conversation—arrive at a position, a tentative answer to the question, that is better than any of the previous single sides and to support that side with reason, research, evidence and argument. Consider the following quote from Voline as you think about this project:
“Each time that we take a fragment of truth found by us for the whole and only truth, and we reject the other fragments, sometimes without even taking the trouble of examining them closely—we distance ourselves from the correct solution. The correct method consists of juxtaposing each fragment found with others, to strive to discover some always new parts of the truth and to seek to make them agree, so that they form one single whole. That is the only way that we can reach our goal” (“On Synthesis” 20-21).
Utilize deductive structures. Have each side use a thesis or thesis like statement that answers my three questions (“what,” “how/why,” and “so-what”). Follow through on that structure. Doing so creates and satisfies audience expectations.
 

Tips for Success

Show understanding and empathy for a range of perspectives. Resist pro/con, either/or thinking (the classic “I’m defending my side and proving the other side wrong” formula). Instead, consider the nuances of your topic, the different values, ways of being in the world, discourse communities and conventions. Each answer to a question probably makes sense under certain conditions and from certain perspectives, so respect each side (as Rogerian argument suggests). Aim to have each character engage fully and speak their peace. Don’t create a strawman. It is only through open and honest dialogue and fully understanding others that we can hope to make a truly “better” synthesis.
 

Length: 1250-1550 words, not including cover page or works cited.

Sources: Incorporate at least eight (8) sources, including at least four (4) scholarly sources.

 

 

Rubric: See the “Dialogue Rubric”
